Good afternoon.
That always surprises me.
My name's Kelly Keenan,
and I'd like to welcome you
today to Designing Applications
with Interface Builder.
The first thing I'd like to talk
about is why are you people here?
Make money.
Great.
How many of you are new to our platform?
A lot of you.
Okay.
How many of you have not really
ever used Interface Builder before?
Okay.
This session, this is for you.
The rest of you,
hopefully you'll find some
secret information that you
didn't know about and that,
you know,
I can give you some pointers that
maybe you didn't catch on to before.
But this is really for the new people.
So all of you probably have
some idea in your head of an
application you want to build.
And so you want to know,
how do I build an interface
for that application?
Now, your interface might be
something that's really simple,
very small, not a lot of controls,
or it might be something
that's very intricate.
And the answer to the question,
how do I build an interface,
is the same for both of these.
And it's the same whether or not you're
building it on Mac OS X as it is for
if you're building it on the iPhone.
For both cases,
you want to use an application
called Interface Builder.
Now, we all know that you can build
your interfaces by writing code.
And I've written a sample here that
just creates an image and creates a
button and adds that image to a button,
sets some targets and some actions,
and then adds that button to a window.
And we've probably all done this
at some point in some language.
This is Objective C.
And all of this code that I wrote
creates a masterpiece that I would
like to call Info Button on a View.
[Transcript missing]
You know, it's very formulaic.
And wouldn't it be nice if there was
an application that would do some
of that formulaic stuff for you?
So we have Interface Builder.
Interface Builder,
if you're new to the platform,
has been around for a decade and a half.
We've been using it to
design Mac OS X applications
since Mac OS X started and
Next applications before that.
So it's not a new application.
It's new to using the iPhone platform.
Interface Builder itself
is an application that we use
to design interfaces by dragging
and dropping controls and views,
configuring the properties
for those controls and views,
and making connections between
those elements and your code.
We use this so that creating
something as simple as my info
button on a view uses this much code.
Because really,
you don't want to be writing that code.
You want to be writing the code
that makes your application unique.
Okay?
So let us do this kind of stuff.
Now, I'm not telling you that you
don't have to write any code.
You still have to write code.
And Interface Builder works hand
in hand with Xcode to create your
interfaces and connect it to the
code that you've written in Xcode.
By the end of today's session,
you should have learned how to
create and customize an interface.
You should have a good understanding
of how Interface Builder works with
Xcode to give you a full experience.
And how to connect your interface
to the code in your project.
So let's start by creating
and customizing an interface.
In Interface Builder,
Can we go back to the slides?
Thanks.
Not quite ready for the demo.
There are four components I want to
talk about today in Interface Builder.
The first is the document window.
This is your interface.
This contains all of the elements that
you're using to create your interface.
Okay?
Now, we also provide the library.
And the library contains all of
these preconfigured controls and
views that we provide for you.
And you can drag and drop those controls
from the library onto the document
window or onto the design surface.
So the design surface is where
you're going to drag around your
views and controls so that your
interface looks just like it will
when you build your application.
This is great for those situations--
I know you've all done this-- where
you've changed the pixels for different
widgets because they don't quite line up.
And then you recompile the code,
and you look at it again.
And you change the pixels again,
and then you recompile,
and then look at it again.
This way you know that things
are lining up because you can see
exactly what it's going to look like
when you build your application.
Now, we have all those
pre-configured controls,
and when you're ready to change
them to make them more unique,
we have the inspectors.
And this is where you go to change
all the properties and configure
your controls and views to look
and act the way you expect them to.
Okay.
So these four components,
the document window, the library,
the design surface,
and the inspectors are the key
components to Interface Builder.
And the best way to understand them
is now to look at them in a demo.
So I'm going to start by
creating a new project in Xcode.
And for this example today,
we're going to create a
new iPhone application.
Now, everything that I talk about today,
even though I'm showing
you an iPhone application,
is applicable to iPhone applications
and Mac OS X applications.
All of the concepts are
exactly the same in both.
If you look in the Groups and
Files view of your project,
you'll find our main window.
And this is what we're going to work
with today to create our interface.
So if I double click this, oops,
that was a little slow,
it opens up Interface Builder.
And you'll see two of the
components I just talked about,
the document window
and the design surface.
In the document window,
there's the files owner
and first responder,
and these are things that
you need to know about,
but they're a little beyond what
we're going to talk about today.
So I'd like to invite you to
come back on Thursday at 9 a.m.
And our Mastering Interface Builder
session will talk more about the
files owner and first responder and
how to use them in your application.
What I want to talk about
right now is the window.
Now, this window here in the document
window is the same window
that is my design surface.
And if I close the design surface,
I can always get back to it by
double-clicking on my window.
Now, kind of like the masterpiece
I showed you earlier,
this isn't very exciting.
So we want to add some controls to it.
To add controls, I'm going to go to the
Tools menu and open the library.
This is where all of those preconfigured
controls and views I told you about,
this is where you find them.
At the top of the library,
you'll see that there's an outline view.
Which groups our controls and views and
all of our interface elements so that you
can easily find what you're looking for.
And it groups all the
related items together.
In the center, you'll see all of the
elements that we need to use.
And each one of them
has a short description.
So you can see exactly what they do.
And if you hover over
any of the elements,
you also find a tooltip that gives
you the same short description.
At the bottom is a longer description,
more detailed.
So if the short description
isn't quite enough,
you can look here.
And if that still isn't enough,
don't forget that you can access
all of the documentation as well,
the full documentation.
The very bottom,
There's an action menu where you can
go to configure how the library looks.
So, for example,
I like to set it up so that I'm just
looking at the icons because I've
used this for so long that I know
what each of the icons does and what
they all represent for elements.
We're going to keep it on
icons and descriptions for now.
Now, I said icons,
and I probably shouldn't have used that
word to describe the items in the library
because these are actual real controls.
They aren't really just
pictures of controls.
When we drag them and drop
them onto our design surface,
You're going to see if
I select the navigation bar
and drag it onto my surface,
I get an actual navigation bar.
And I can place this wherever I want
to place it in the design surface.
The application I want to build for you
right now is just a simple web browser.
You all have an idea of what a
web browser is and the kind of
elements we need to create one.
For example, in my navigation bar,
I'm going to want a text field
to be able to enter a URL.
So if I use a search
field in the library,
I can search for text field.
And I can drag the text field out
and drop it onto my interface.
Another important component
to my web browser would be,
say, a web view, right?
That might be particularly useful.
So I can search again for a
web view and drag that out.
And notice that in Interface Builder
we do a lot to try to resize things
to exactly the size you need.
We also have these things called guides.
So if you can see the blue dotted
lines as I move the web view around.
The guides are there to help
you align all of your elements.
Like I said before, if you've tried to do
this in code before,
it can be somewhat tedious to do in code.
Interface makes this really easy
for you to be able to align things
in the center or align them with
other elements that are on your page.
You'll also notice when
you do this yourself,
you'll feel the elements
snap to the guides.
And I can't really show that to
you here because it's kind of,
you know, it's hard to show.
But once you try this on your own,
you'll see what I'm talking about.
Okay, so I have a text field
and I have a web view.
I'd also like to go back and forward.
So let's add some buttons.
Oops.
So this is where some of that -- the
short description comes in really handy.
I have a couple different buttons
that showed up when I said button.
And in this case,
the bar button item is useful
for UI navigation item.
So I'm going to use that.
And if I drag it out,
Interface Builder is showing me
where I can drop this button.
So I'm going to add one to each side.
Now, in my design surface,
there are certain things
I can do to customize my
elements in the surface itself.
In this case, with buttons,
I can double-click on them
and change their titles.
And for now,
I'm just going to use a less than
sign to represent my back button and a
greater than sign to represent forward.
Okay?
Now, it would be nice if I could get this
text field to stretch all the way across.
And if you can see,
it might be hard in the back.
There's two small buttons,
one on each side, the resize buttons,
that I can select and then
resize the text field right
here on the design surface.
Okay, great.
So now I have some of the basic
items that I need in my interface.
And I can go ahead and
simulate my interface,
and it brings up the iPhone simulator.
I can click on the buttons
and I see that they,
you know, act like real buttons.
And I can click on the text field
and it actually brings up a keypad.
Now, in my application,
I'd really -- since
this is a web browser,
I'd like to have that go button that you
see like when you use Safari and maybe
that .com button that's at the bottom.
And there's a special web
keyboard that I'd like to use.
So, if we go back to Interface Builder, I
I want to customize these
elements that I have,
so I need to go to the Tools menu
and open the Inspector.
Now, the inspector is broken up
into a couple different pieces.
We have the attributes inspector.
We have the connections inspector,
the size inspector,
and the identity inspector.
And for this demo,
I'm going to talk about the size
inspector and the attributes inspector.
Now, in the size inspector,
you see this little animation.
And this is a section on auto-sizing.
So one of the things that
I need to do is my text field,
when I rotate my interface,
the text field doesn't
stretch all the way across.
And I'd really like that to happen.
So I can select the text field.
And you'll see in the sample
animation that my text field
is just staying in one place.
Now, on the left-hand side,
there's four connections you can
make to the outside of your widget,
and there's two stretchers,
vertical and horizontal.
And I want it to stretch horizontally.
Now, you see the animation stretching,
but it's not going all the way across,
And so I need to connect
it to the far side.
And now when I rotate my view,
my text field is going to stretch to
go across the entire top of the view.
Great.
So what else did I want?
Well, I wanted that text field to have
the go button and the web keyboard.
So if I go to the attributes inspector,
The attributes inspector set up
hierarchically so that I can see what
properties go with what controls.
And in this case,
there's also some extra controls
in the text input traits.
And I want to change the
type of my text input to URL.
Now, all of these properties that we're
setting in the attributes inspector
are the same properties that you
see when you use the APIs to create
these elements programmatically.
Okay?
So anything that you can do in the APIs,
we have matching properties
that you can set here.
So in this case,
I want to set the type to the URL.
And I'd like to set the return
key to that blue Go button.
And I want it to auto-enable
when I start typing.
Now,
another thing I see is up at the top,
I have text field properties,
and there's a placeholder text.
Now, when my mother gets an
application like this,
she doesn't necessarily
know that's a text field.
We all have a good
idea it's a text field,
but my mom, yeah, not so much.
So I want to put some placeholder
text in here so that she knows what
she's supposed to do with this text
field when she gets my application.
So I'm going to type
in enter web address.
And now you can see that the
placeholder text is in my text field.
OK.
So my interface is looking better,
but I'd really like it
that sexy black color that,
you know, everybody uses.
So I want to change.
The first thing I want to
change is the window status bar.
I'm going to change that to the black.
And then I also want to change
my navigation bar to black.
Now,
this is a good time to tell you about the
different modes of the document window.
So the document window
You can see the top-level
elements in the icon view.
But when you want to dig deeper into the
elements that are on your design surface,
you can also use the browser mode.
Hi, everyone.
I'm Kelly Keenan.
I'm the design engineer
at Interface Builder.
I'm going to talk about how to
use the design interface to look
through your design surface or
you can use the outline view,
which I'm going to use right now.
So if I just open the window,
I can see that the navigation bar
is here and I can double click it
to select it in the design surface.
And once it's selected
in the design surface,
my inspector reflects what's selected.
Now I can change the style of my
navigation bar to black opaque.
Also notice that Interface Builder
helped me out by changing the
buttons so that they're matching my
navigation controller and I didn't
have to change anything there.
Okay.
Looking better.
Now I want to add a little more to my
interface and I'm thinking I really want
to stop in a reload button because this
isn't going to do me much at the moment.
So there's not a lot of room up in
this top toolbar so I want to add
a bottom -- a bar at the bottom.
I can use the outline view
to navigate through here.
I couldn't remember what the
bar at the bottom was called.
I can scroll through and look and say,
oh, it was a toolbar.
And now when I drag the toolbar out,
notice when I bring it into the
design surface that it changed
to the black opaque color.
So again,
Interface Builder does what tries
to match some of the properties that
are similar in your design surface.
And I'm going to set it
down here on the bottom.
I have a button that's already there.
And I'm just going to
duplicate that button.
And notice that the two
buttons are side by side.
I'd really like some space in the center.
So if I look for a space,
I can drag out a flexible
space and put it in between
the two buttons to change them.
Now I need to change the
properties of these buttons.
So if I select the first button,
I can go to my inspector
again to change properties.
And I can change the identifier
for this property to refresh.
So again, if I select the other button,
the properties that are listed here
are the same ones that are available
if you did this programmatically.
So I can set this one to the stop.
And another nice thing about the
inspectors is we have something
called multiple inspection,
where if I select both buttons at
once by holding down the shift key,
I can now change the style of
both of them at the same time.
So if you have multiple elements
on your design surface that you
want to change the properties of,
you can select all of them and
change any of the common properties.
So I'm going to change
these both to plain.
Now, great,
my bottom bar is looking really good.
So if you saw Matthew Furlick's
demonstration in the developer
tools talk yesterday,
he dragged a toolbar that was
already configured from the library.
Now,
how did he get that there to begin with?
I have this toolbar I might
want to use later in a demo.
And so to do that,
all you have to do is select the
toolbar and drag it back -- well,
sorry, I took it off there.
Down to the
Down in this section in the library,
there's a custom objects section
where you can put any items
that you've configured already.
And so we can drag this toolbar off and
just drop it into the custom objects.
Okay.
It's going to ask me for a
little bit of information.
So in this case, I'm going to put in web
toolbar as the title.
Give it a short description,
magically without typing much.
And a long description.
Because you know if I tried
to type this right now,
I would misspell everything.
So thank you, demo monkey.
and
When I press the OK button,
you'll now see that my toolbar
appears in the library.
The title I typed in, Web Toolbars,
is listed here as well
as the short description.
And the long description is down here
in the detailed description section.
So anytime you have customized objects
that you'd like to reuse later,
drag them back into the library
and they'll be available to you
at any time through your process.
Great.
So I have this great
toolbar at the bottom.
Now, I'd really like some custom images
for my back and forward buttons.
So let's go back to Xcode for this.
Now I need some resources,
and luckily I thought about
my demo ahead of time.
And I have a back and forward
button that I already created.
So I can drag them into the
resources folder of my project.
I'm going to have them copy into
my destination folder in case
I delete the originals later.
And I'm going to set
this to add to my target.
Great, so I have these resources that
are now available in my project.
Now if we go back to Interface Builder.
Another section of the library
that I haven't told you about
yet is the media section.
And in the media section of the library,
you'll find all of the resources
that are in your project.
So you'll see that the back and forward
buttons that I added to my project
are now available in the library.
And I can drag these images out
and drop them onto my buttons.
So all that code I had earlier to
put a custom image onto a button,
I just did by adding these images
to my project and dragging and
dropping them onto a button
that was on my design surface,
which hopefully you'll agree with me
is a lot easier than writing the code.
So let's just simulate
this one more time.
But instead of simulating it,
I'm going to actually build it in Xcode.
I'm going to save it because
I forget to do that sometimes.
And we'll see now the
custom images that I put in,
the buttons that I put at the bottom.
And if I click on the text field,
I get that web keyboard
with the dot com in it.
And if I start typing,
The Go button turns blue.
And if I click on it, nothing happens.
So we haven't connected
anything to code yet.
Okay?
And that's part of our next demo.
So if we go back to the slides.
Okay,
so we've created a custom interface.
And I showed you four pieces
to Interface Builder that
you need to know about today.
The first being the document window.
And this is the starting
point for your interface.
It contains all of the interface
elements that are part of the
interface that you're designing.
It's available in the three views, icon,
outline, and browser view,
so that you can search -- so that
you can go through your interface
and find some of those elements
that might not be easily clickable.
And it's searchable,
so that when you know
what you're looking for,
you can just type it into the
search field and easily find it.
The second piece is the library.
This stores all of the pre-configured
controls that we provide for you.
It's divided in such a way that you
can -- we've grouped the controls
so that you can see controls
that are related to each other.
There's descriptive documentation
so if you don't know what a
control or an element does exactly,
you can see a short description or a more
detailed description about that element.
It's searchable.
And the library itself is customizable.
So you can change it around a little
bit as you get more comfortable with
using the library and interface builder.
And also it's customizable in that
you can add any controls that you've
created and configured back into
the library for you to use later.
The third piece is the design
surface where you drag and drop
all of these elements and move them
around your interface and they'll
snap to the guides that are there
to help you lay out your interface.
And everything you see on the design
surface is what you're going to see
when you build and run your application,
just like we saw in the demo.
The fourth piece is the inspectors.
This is where you customize
all of the properties of each
of the interface elements that
you're adding to your interface.
They're grouped by type
so that you can easily,
you know,
we looked at just the size inspector
and the attributes inspector.
And they're divided by
inheritance so you can see what
properties go with what controls.
And it's done that way to help
you learn a little bit about
Cocoa and what goes with what.
So what properties go with what elements.
And it supports multiple
inspections so that if you want
to change a common property for,
you know, a bunch of elements,
you just select them all
and change them all at once.
And we use these four pieces
to create a simple interface.
And now I'd like to invite
Chris Pavicich to come on stage and
explain to you how to make connections.
Hello.
Good afternoon.
Hope you guys are enjoying
the session so far.
Great demo so far, Kelly.
That was an awesome visual
start to how you work with IB.
So, I'm here to talk to
you about connections,
and connections are the way you
make relationships between objects.
It's how you're going to connect
the objects you've been working with
in IB to the objects that you're
going to be working with in Xcode.
So, how do I connect this pre-configured
interface that I've set up in IB to
the source code I'm writing in Xcode?
Before we get into that,
I'd like to talk for just a
really brief second about MVC.
So all of the applications in OS X on--
OS X and the iPhone OS are built around
the model-view-controller paradigm.
Show of hands-- it's
hard to see you guys,
but how many of you
are familiar with MVC?
All right.
A pretty good section of the crowd,
but maybe 50/50.
So let me explain MVC really quickly.
So it's just a way of
partitioning the objects in your
application into three slices.
You've got the model layer that's really
the persistent data of your application.
You've got the view layer
that's obviously your UI.
And you have the controller layer,
and the controller layers of specific
interest in the rest of this talk,
because it's really the glue
that binds the model to the view.
So when the view is clicked on,
someone manipulates a control,
moves a slider, presses a button,
types in a text field,
the controller layer is going
to need to respond to that and
somehow change the model layer.
And when something updates
in the model layer,
say you get an over-the-air
notification that someone's added a
new address book card using MobileMe,
we need to reflect that
in the address book UI.
So it's the controller layer that's,
again, responsible for noticing that part
of the model layer has changed,
and I need to take the appropriate action
to go ahead and update the view layer.
So it's glue.
Okay, so the rest of the talk is gonna
be concerned with how we tie the
view layer to the control layer,
and we do that in IB Making Connections.
Kelly showed you earlier how the
resources that she added to her
Xcode project automatically showed
up in IB when she added them.
As you would expect,
Xcode and IB work together to
communicate about resources that
are available in your project,
about changes you've made to the source
of the objects in your Xcode project.
So one of the most important things
you can do when you're working with
an object in Interface Builder is
make sure that its class is set
correctly so that IB knows how to
ask the right questions to Xcode and
you're working with the correct data
for the class you're working with.
So it's pretty simple to set the custom
class of an object in Interface Builder.
Select it in the document window
and we're going to talk about one
of the four inspector modes that
Kelly didn't touch on earlier.
And that's the identity inspector.
The identity inspector,
you can think of it sort of
as a view into your class.
It shows that at the
top of the inspector,
you see what class this object is.
And then beneath that,
you see the actions and outlets.
I'm not going to explain
actions and outlets right yet,
but we're going to get into that
in just a second because they're an
integral part of making connections and
tying your UI back to your source code.
So the first thing I've got to do,
I'm going to go ahead and
do a little bit of a test.
Amen.
When I'm ready to start working
with one of my controller
objects and making connections,
it's selected in the document window.
And be sure that the custom class is set.
Now,
since we as developer tools engineers
want to make your life easier and do-- we
want you to do as little work as you have
to and just focus on writing a great app,
the projects that come out of
the Xcode templates have a lot
of the custom classes set up
already in Interface Builder.
And this one's--
No exceptions.
Since Kelly created the
project from an Xcode template,
the custom class has already been set.
But this is something you guys
are going to do a lot when you're
working with your own IB files.
So it's important that you
understand how it works.
So if I just start typing a
class name into that combo box,
it'll autocomplete because
IB and Xcode are communicating.
It knows about all the
classes in my project.
And boom, you should see it autocomplete
and your class is set.
Now IB knows the class of that
object and can start asking it
about the actions and outlets that
are available from that class.
So as I mentioned earlier,
there are connections or how you set
Make relationships between the objects in
Interface Builder and your source code.
There are two kinds of connections
you need to be concerned with
when you're working with IB.
The first of these is an outlet.
IB outlet's a pretty simple concept.
It's just a way of exposing a property
if you're using Objective-C2 or an
instance variable if you're not yet
using Objective-C2 to Interface Builder.
You can imagine in the controller
object for the web browser Kelly started
to build earlier that when our
URL loads and our user's done
typing in a URL into the text field,
that we're going to need to
go make a socket connection,
load some content,
and then display the HTML that was
returned in the web view that she
dragged into the user interface.
So somehow the
Controller object that we're working
with in Xcode needs to know about the
web view that Kelly dragged in from IB.
So if you see on the top of this slide,
and I apologize if it's
hard to read in the back,
there's a property
declaration for a web view.
And as this property
declaration is right now,
this web view won't show up in IB.
See the two inspector modes
I've got below the code?
There's on the right the
connections inspector,
and on your left the identity inspector.
And you'll notice that there
are no outlets in either list.
Why?
Well, because we haven't told Xcode
to please tell IB that this
property needs to be exposed.
How do I do that?
Well, it's pretty simple.
I add one keyword to that property
declaration called IB outlet.
And IB outlet is nothing more than a hint
to Interface Builder that this property
is important and should be exposed to IB.
So you see when I add
the IB outlet keyword,
Interface Builder refreshes and I now
get a WebView outlet in both my identity
inspector and my connections inspector.
So great.
We've got I-Bean knowing that there's
a WebView in source code that's going
to be provided by this nib file.
So outlets are how you expose
instance variables or properties
from your source code to IB.
Great.
So far, I can talk to this web view,
but I can't respond to any user input.
When Kelly was doing her demo earlier,
she started typing a
URL in the text field,
hit go on the keyboard,
and nothing happened.
Well,
nothing happened because my controller
class in Xcode had no idea what to do.
It wasn't wired up.
There was no connection between my
controller class and my text field in
IB that responded to any user input.
How do I respond to user input?
I do that with IB Actions.
IB Actions are used to connect the
methods that you write in code to
controls in your user interface.
So, I
I've already written a load web
page method that'll go ahead and
do all the magic right things
that need to happen to load a web
page and show it in my web view.
But again, if you look at the inspectors,
there are no-- my slides are wrong.
I apologize.
That should be blank.
That load web page
should not show up yet.
And I did a poor job
of reviewing my slides.
Once I add the IB action keyword
to the declaration for this method,
again, just like IB outlet,
it's a hint to Interface Builder that,
hey, this method is important and
someone will want to connect to it.
It shows up in IB,
and you see that we now have a
load web page action showing up
in both the identity inspector
and the connections inspector.
So you've seen so far how
to use IB outlet to expose
properties or instance variables
to IB and how to use IB action,
which is a similar sort of keyword
for exposing methods to IB.
But we haven't connected anything up yet.
How do I make connections between
these objects and my source code?
Well, I use the Connections Inspector.
Making connections is just a
matter of clicking and dragging
from the connections inspector to
the object you want to connect to.
For instance,
I want to connect my load or my
My web view outlet to the web view
that Kelly dragged in earlier.
So how am I going to do that?
From the connections inspector,
I'm going to click on
the connection well,
and I'm going to drag over to the web
view that is in my design surface.
It's going to flash to let
me know that this is a valid
endpoint for this connection.
And when I
When I let go of the mouse,
you'll see that the inspector updates
and shows me on the right-hand side where
previously there was a connection well,
that now the WebView outlet has been
connected to the WebView in my interface.
The same goes for setting up an action.
If I want to connect an action,
which represents a method, to a control,
I simply drag from the connection
well on the right-hand side of the
connections inspector to the control
that I want to connect that method to.
So when the user manipulates
whatever control,
in my case the URL text field,
it's going to send my load web page
message to my controller object.
So if we could get the demo machine,
the best way to learn is to see.
So I'm going to finish the
application Kelly started earlier
by making two connections.
So from looking at the user
interface that Kelly started with,
there's two things I need to do.
I need to respond to a user
typing into that text field.
Whatever URL they enter,
I've got to handle that,
and I need my load web
page method called.
And
Once that URL is loaded,
I'm going to need some
place to display it.
So I'm going to need to connect my
controller in source code to my web
view so that the user can see the
contents of the URL that they loaded.
Pretty simple,
just two things we need to do today.
So I'm going to go ahead and
start in Interface Builder.
And I'm going to select my controller.
And in the identity inspector,
we're going to see that-- yep,
we've got the right class for this set.
Like I said, it was set automatically
from the Xcode template.
Just a way to save you time,
but should verify that
it is the right class,
and it is.
Now,
I need to add IB action and IB outlet
keywords to that controller object,
and I need to do it in Xcode,
or I'm going to do it in Xcode.
So I need to jump to the source
definition for this object.
How do I do that?
Select the object in the document window.
And in the Help menu,
there's an item called
Interface for Selection.
This will go ahead and jump me straight
to the header for this object in Xcode.
There's also a shortcut if any
of you are power Xcode users or
you have never used Xcode before.
One thing that Xcode provides
is for you to command,
double-click on any symbol
within your source file,
and it'll jump you to the definition.
Well, the same shortcut works in IB.
So again, to jump to the source
definition for this,
I could either say
Interface for Selection,
or I could command, double-click.
And you see that Xcode jumped me
straight to my controller's header.
And I need to expose that web view.
This is why you never type on stage,
folks.
And since I'm using
Objective-C2 properties,
Remember I need to use the
IB outlet keyword in the
declaration for this property.
So I'm going to go ahead and add that.
And you notice there's also
my UI window has the IB outlet
keyword in front of it as well.
So if you're working with
pre-objective C 2.0 and you're
not using properties yet,
you put the IB outlet declaration
straight on the instance variable.
If you're using properties,
you can either put it on the instance
variable or on the property declaration.
Either which way works.
Just you should know
that you can do both.
[Transcript missing]
Load my web page.
And again, I mentioned earlier that
this method isn't going to be
exposed to IB yet because it's
missing the IB action keyword.
So I'm going to go ahead.
And change the return type
from void to IB action.
And since watching me type
source code into Xcode is really
painful... Listening to me
whistle on stage is much better.
Sorry, I thought you weren't going to
have to watch me write code,
but turns out you are.
Demo Monkey to save the day.
Hooray, there's my load web page action.
And...
Need to do a little cleanup.
Got to take care of releasing
everything I'm responsible for.
So great.
I've got my load web page method written.
And if we switch back to the header,
I've got my web view property
declared as IB outlet,
so it's going to show
up in Interface Builder.
And I've got my load web page method with
the IB action keyword in front of it.
So both of these,
the property and the method,
are ready to go and they're
going to show up in IB.
So we're done with Xcode.
Go ahead and save.
Switch back to IB,
and it's time to make some of those
connections we talked about earlier.
I mentioned that Xcode
and IB work hand in hand,
work together.
And if you've got your custom
class information set up,
you see that--
Now in the class actions section
of my identity inspector,
my load web page method has shown up.
And there's also an
outlet for my web view.
So I want to start connecting the actions
and the outlets up to the actual objects
in my UI so that my app does something.
So I'm going to switch from the identity
inspector to the connections inspector.
And the first thing I want
to do is connect my web view.
So again, from the right-hand side of
the Connections Inspector,
I'm going to click and drag,
and you see this thin blue line come out.
And I don't know if you can
see it in the back of the room
because it's kind of hard to see,
but when I bring the
connection over the web view,
it highlights and that lets
me know that this is a valid
endpoint for this connection.
So I'm going to let go of the mouse.
You see the inspector updated
and my web view is connected.
If you're working with a nib
you've never worked with before,
an Interface Builder document
and it's already pre-configured,
someone's done some work on it,
and you're not sure of how
it's all connected together
and you need a reminder,
if you slide your mouse over the
connections in the Connections Inspector,
you'll see that it actually
highlights the web view,
letting me know that's the web
view this outlet is connected to.
So great,
we can now push changes to the UI,
but we can't react to any user
input yet because we haven't
wired up our load web page method.
So connecting actions is just
as easy as connecting outlets.
I'm going to go ahead and
click on the connection well.
Drag over my text field.
And again,
it highlights to let me know this is
a valid endpoint for this connection.
Release the mouse.
And again,
my inspector updates and lets me know
that my load web page action is in
fact connected to that text field,
my round style text field.
Cool.
So we've accomplished the two
goals we set out for in this demo.
From my controller class,
I now have a connection to-- I have
an IB outlet for my web view.
And the web view that I designed in
the nib is now connected up to that
property of my controller object.
And I've got my UI responding to-- when
the user types into the URL text field,
it's going to call my LoadWebPage method.
So we're pretty much done.
I'm going to hit Save.
Let's go back to Xcode.
Build and run.
And if the demo gods are with me today,
we should have a working web browser.
All right,
so let's take a look at what I just did.
I'm not going to go head to
head with a mobile Safari team,
but that's pretty cool.
I just built a web browser.
It actually works.
And I wrote about--
Seven lines of code maybe?
And that's a pretty
complicated user interface.
We should test to make sure it all works.
So,
We know the text field worked,
we saw that,
but none of my navigation buttons work.
So I'm gonna go ahead and quit
the simulator and go back to IB.
Because there are some
connections I forgot to make.
I didn't wire up any of those controls
in the nav bar or the toolbar at the
bottom of the window to my controller
object or to any other object.
So I can click them
until the cows come home,
and as you saw, they won't do anything.
We've got to change that.
I happen to know that the UI web view
has a couple actions that it defines that
I can connect objects from my nib to.
So I'm going to select my web view.
And I see that WebView has four actions:
go back, go forward, reload,
and stop loading.
Those seem eerily similar to
the controls I have in my UI.
So I'm going to go ahead and
connect those up as well.
Go back.
Go forward, reload, stop loading.
So good.
We've got every interface element
that the user can interact with
in this UI wired to something,
so they'll all do something.
So I'm going to go ahead and save.
Go back to Xcode again, build and run.
And let's actually navigate in this
web view and see if back works.
There we go.
It's a little bit slow, but it did work.
And does back work?
Awesome.
So that actually concludes my demo today.
If we could get the slides.
All right.
So we talked about connections.
Connections are the way you relate
objects in either within an Interface
Builder document or between an Interface
Builder document and your source code.
So it's all about making connections
and it's all about relating things.
And there are two kinds of connections
you need to be concerned with.
IB outlets, which expose instance
variables or properties from
your source in Xcode to IB.
And IB actions,
which expose the methods you've
written in your source code to IB so
you can hook them up to controls.
That actually brings an end
to our presentation today.
If you have any questions
or need more information,
please contact Michael Jurwitz.
He's our Developer Tools evangelist.
And if you need more documentation
about Interface Builder,
please visit
developer.apple.com/documentation/develop
ertools/conceptual/ibuserguide.
Wow, that's a long URL.
But there's great documentation
on the web about IB.
And if we've really wet your whistle
today and you want to know more about
why I wrote some of the source that
I wrote or how to do more advanced
things with Interface Builder,
I'd invite you to join us to our
Mastering Interface Builder session.
That's going to be in the
marina at 9:00 AM Thursday,
and it's going to be jam-packed
with a lot of really,
really cool content.
So if you like what you saw today,
please join us Thursday at 9:00 AM,
and we'll have tons more
information for you.
and all of the Interface Builder
engineers will be available
in labs throughout the week.
So please come and join us
if you've got any questions,
you need some one-on-one help.
Be happy to help you.